your email list is 10 times more
valuable than your followers despite
having more than a million followers
across all of my social media channels I
a firm believer that it's the email list
that is most responsible for the success
of our business now of course having
social media followers is helpful in
growing your email list but ultimately
you're going to get far more return on
investment with your email list than you
are with your social media followers
also it's important to understand and I
say this not to scare you but just to
make sure that we have a mutual
realistic understanding that you don't
own the rights to access your social
media followers if you have 100
followers or 100,000 followers you could
lose access to those in the blink of an
eye just like that you could get hacked
the algorithms could change the platform
could be banned it could be bought it
could be sold things could be disrupted
you could lose access to your account
because you were struck down for
something that you didn't actually do
that's been happening quite a bit on
Instagram recently I can't tell you how
many direct messages I've received from
people who are getting their accounts
suspended for doing absolutely nothing
wrong and I say all of that to again
just outline the realistic possibility
that you don't own your social media
channels and so you spent months if not
years growing this platform posting
consistent content growing a community
and then just suddenly in the blink of
an eye it can all be taken away from you
that is very scary and that's putting
your business in a very vulnerable
position and so of course I'm a big fan
of social media and I'm going to teach
you how to grow your following and how
to go viral and how to reach more people
and that's like what 90% of our episodes
here at build your tribe are all about
but ultimately that doesn't matter if
there's not a so then what and the so
then what that makes the most sense to
me and that I would recommend for pretty
much everyone watching or listening is
that so then what so that you can then
transition those followers onto your
email list now email might seem like
something that's archaic that's outdated
that was effective as a marketing tool
in the early 2000s but not anymore and
that couldn't be further from the truth
study after study continues to come out
showing the effectiveness of having an
Engaged email list the key there is the
word engaged because while you might
feel like you don't open emails you do
the reality is you just don't open
shitty emails you don't open clickbait
emails you don't open generic copy and
paste salesy emails you don't open scam
or spam I hope you don't or promotional
emails those sorts of emails are kind of
like abs on a TV show that you recorded
you're just going to fast forward
through them or you're going to pay for
the upgraded streaming service that you
don't have to watch ads people don't
like ads that's absolutely true but some
ads are still effective some ads are
still memorable some ads still stand out
in convert and the same is true with an
email and I should also pause right now
and say that not all emails are going to
be promotional or advertising but it is
true that some emails stand out some
emails get clicked on I bet today even
within the last 24 4 hours you have if
not clicked on at least noticed some
emails in your inbox maybe you got a
notification on your phone about a new
email and it grabbed your attention it
caught your eye maybe you're going to go
open it later maybe you've already read
a few emails today emails are important
emails are how we contact our followers
and our customers our potential
customers in a way that we control it's
the most secure form of doing business
online and that's why today I am so
excited to get to share an interview
that I recently had with Natalie Frank
who is the head of marketing for flowes
flowes is an email marketing platform
which aims to make your emails more
engaging and more beautifully designed
while also simplifying the process and
making the barrier to entry to both
growing and actually sending emails to
your email list easier than ever so in
today's episode I'm going to pick her
brain about what makes a good email what
sort of stats should you pay attention
to how do you get someone from just a
follower to an actual email list
subscriber how often should you send
emails to your email list how long
should your emails be pretty much
everything that you need to know about
email marketing will be included in
today's episode Natalie has a background
starting her own small business so she's
more than just the head of marketing she
also very much understands exactly where
people like myself and people like you
are at she understands the struggles she
understands the lack of time and
resources and so I'm really excited to
get to just hear all of her expert
advice and her strategies and tips that
she's sharing with us today so without
further ado I'm going to quit my yapping
here is our full
conversation hello Natalie welcome to
today's episode of build your tribe
thank you for having me yeah I'm so
excited to get to dive into something
that is so absolutely crucial and
essential for building a business on
social media building a business online
I'm just going to say building a
business in 2024 and moving into the
future 2025 and onwards um so I'd love
if you could before we even get into
like the actual questions I have for you
today if you could just introduce
yourself quickly um to my audience and
and to anyone who might be like who is
this
woman of course so my name is Natalie
Frank I am the head of marketing at
flesk and my career actually started as
a small business owner so I know the
content creator space I know the small
business space because I started my
career as a wedding photographer and ran
that business for almost a decade before
growing a community becoming a USA Today
best-selling author moving into Tech and
specifically moving into building tech
for the community I care so much about
small businesses so I'm an email
marketing expert I am a mama bear for
small business and I'm just really
passionate about helping creators to
build a sustainable livelihood helping
them to actually turn that talent and
that passion into Revenue that can
change their lives I love that I love
that and we have talked quite a bit here
at build your tribe about the importance
of an email list a lot of our listeners
might be familiar with our story of how
back in I think it was 2014 or so my
mom's Instagram was hacked her Facebook
was hacked her Twitter was hacked um
they started deleting a bunch of posts
and posting a bunch of um extremely
vulgar inappropriate content um and so
we at the I say we because at the time
she was really um the social media for
our family we lost hundreds of thousands
of followers in a matter of days and
fortunately we had an email list she had
an email list and so the business didn't
really take a hit and a lot of those
followers were able to Bally be invited
back but I think that's a great place to
start with just kind of asking you can
you tell us more about the importance of
having an email list um especially if
you're just you know a solo entrepreneur
or a Creator who's posting on social
media yes and I I hate hearing that
story from you because unfortunately I
hear it all the time every time I go
into the fields and we're chatting about
email with folks I can't tell you how
many times you know somebody comes to me
even if they don't have hundreds of
thousands of followers they spent years
building a social platform that they
love and it gets hacked or something
happens and um you know email is
critical it's more important than ever
and uh when you are a content creator or
a small business owner one of the most
important lessons that you'll learn
early on is that there's a difference
between rented channels and owned
channels or rented audiences and owned
audiences and this is always where I
like to start um it's not necessarily
that one is better than the other or
that you don't need both I actually am a
big believer in Social I think social is
phenomenal it's giving access to the
entire world at your fingertips it is
critical and yet it can't be your only
marketing channel if your only channels
that you are investing in as a Creator
as an SMB are rented channels meaning
spaces where somebody else owns the
platform controls the algorithm could
shut it down at any time could you know
your ability be taken away from you to
access that audience you don't own it
you are actually renting space on
somebody else's land whereas an own
channel like an e email list is an
audience that you have control over you
actually own that list so you could have
an email list on flowes today but you
can take that list with you if Tik Tok
shut down you can't just download your
followers and upload them to your
Instagram account right it's different
it's a different way of marketing your
business so what I always like to say is
when it comes to email think of social
as that top of funnel channel that is
your widest reach that's that rented
space that gives you access to the world
it is powerful and one of the main goals
of social media should actually be to
convert people to an owned Channel
converting them from social to email so
that way you can continue to nurture
that relationship you can continue to
convert that audience you know there's a
saying in the small business space it
was like you know if you want to double
your Revenue you just double your email
list that's how simple it is to increase
the money that you're making in your
business because that audience converts
at an extremely high rate they become
very very loyal anyone that you
subscribe to you get to know them even
better and it serves as a way where you
can really make the s and so businesses
that have email marketing as a core part
of their marketing strategy will often
use social in less of a sales capacity
and more of a value driving capacity
they can look to social as a way to
serve to show up to share their
personality their personal brand to
invest invest invest they will do some
of that as well on email but email and
the intent and I won't get too too far
into consumer intent but the intent
someone has when they open their inbox
is very different than the intent
someone has when they scroll on social
and so you can truly convert um at a
higher rate and be more salesy on email
after you've offered that value both on
social and via email it's just such a
powerful tool yeah I I wholeheartedly
agree and I love that you brought up the
idea of like giving value and teaching
or serving or pouring into your audience
on social um and how you're allowed to
do that that's such a great way to think
about it is like you have the the
freedom to not have to sell on social
and instead you can just use social to
do all those things I just listed and
then drive people to your email list
which is ultimately where people are
going to be more likely to buy anyways
and they're more willing to be sold to
and to listen to the sales pitch rather
than scrolling through 17 hilarious
funny engaging captivating valuable
videos on Instagram or Tik Tok or
wherever and then they get to your like
promotional video it's no wonder they're
not paying attention on social uh but
it's very different in the email um you
know in the email inbox when they're
scrolling through those those new emails
and so I'd love for you to talk a little
bit more about how businesses can get
people onto their email list from social
because that's really my primary drive
with my social media um I think I
probably average fiveish posts a week um
per channel that are driving people just
to my email list and none of those are
really ever selling I rarely ever sell a
paid offer um on my actual social it's
all just driving people to my email so
can you share some ways that people can
actually do exactly that yes and I will
say you're very good at it you got me on
your email list as as a fan just truly
by providing value and um being really
strategic in how that value can be
received through your it was fantastic
very very well done so if anyone's
looking for a good example Brock is
killing it um the these are just the
quick ways that you can start growing
that list and I I promise you this is
not rocket science anybody can do this
and the best time to start is right now
it's today right especially if you've
been investing in Social you never want
to just invest in Social and not be
simultaneously growing your list so how
do we do it well first and foremost I
want you to leverage your link in BIO
this is your most viewed top of funnel
space beyond your actual profile on
social so that link in BIO should have
some way of converting people to your
email list it could be an actual
embedded form um if you're using
something awesome like Stan um if you're
using Squarespace show it or even floes
we have a Linkin bio form that you can
use from us as well all of these
different platforms give you a way to to
do this you can either toggle on the
email collection option or embed a form
right onto that page that you're using
but collect subscribers right on your
form I actually recommend having an
email acquisition optin above every link
that you have it should be a big offer
it should be easy to see um if you're
curious you can go actually to floes on
Instagram see how we do this with our
Linkin bio to convert our own
subscribers it's a good example um but
you know have it on your link in BIO
please don't waste that space don't just
have a a listing of too many links where
they get analysis paralysis and don't
click anything like make sure you are
centering email acquisition within that
Linkin bio strategy you can also though
use the links to direct to a full page
form a mini course and and I'll talk
right now about like what are some of
those things that you're offering like
how are you hooking them how are you
actually getting them to give you the
email so it comes down to one of the the
core principles that brought you talk
about all the time which is value and
serving you have to get crystal clear on
what does your audience want from you
the way I like to phrase it is ask
yourself this question what could I
offer that would be so irresistible that
they would be ecstatic to give me their
email address what can you create
whether it's a downloadable file this
could be something like a guide a
checklist a toolkit a freebie of some
kind you know I think the days of like a
simple checklist might even be over they
want more value so like come to the
table ready to deliver uh two uh types
of lead magnets this is what we call
them to kind of capture those leads that
I've see be really successful Beyond
digital downloads the first is a mini
course so if you especially if you're a
Creator and you're offering kind of
course education materials or um I
always give the example I was a wedding
photographer so even if it's like an
engagement session mini course like what
to wear when to schedule your shoot all
the things that your customers are
wondering about and thinking about even
if they're not ready to book you um you
know that should be something pres
presented a value and you can create a
mini course and deliver that and that's
a a tremendous value completely for free
to grow your list um the second uh
option or I should say the third
technically Beyond digital downloads
mini course but the the second big one
that I don't often hear people talk
about that I love is a quiz you can
actually Create a quiz that your
audience takes and um in taking that
quiz they give you their email address
but they also uncover something you know
maybe even about themselves or their
personality we I'm a child again of like
the 90s and the BuzzFeed quizzes and so
I am guilty like if you do a quiz I'm
taking it even if it's not particularly
relevant to me um but what I love about
quizzes is that it also tells you a lot
about your subscriber you can actually
learn a lot about what someone's
interested in what type of segment they
might need to be placed in or a workflow
that might be most relevant for them so
if you are more in that advanced stage
of email marketing quizzes open up so
much information um about that
subscribers you can serve them better
which is ultimately the goal and I'll
give an anecdote here with the quiz my
friend Tor Dunlap um she when I was
chatting with her about email marketing
because she's built this really
successful business her first 100 k for
anyone um that's familiar she ended
ended up telling me you know Natalie I
actually converted over a 100,000 people
from One Tik Tok video One Tik Tok video
that went viral I got 100,000
subscribers converted to my email list
and all of that was done through a quiz
and that for me was one of the first
things that really turned me on to the
power of a quiz um we uh directly
integrate for example flotes does with
interact which is a great quiz platform
in software there are plenty of other
ways you could build a quiz um it's not
hard to do but it is a fun way to really
ramp up your list growth and offer
something of value to your community I
love that and and I absolutely agree
with what you were saying at the
beginning of you know the days of
offering something super simple or kind
of basic or not that valuable for free
just for signing up for your email list
it it's they might be over like they're
just not effective or not as effective
anymore um and that's something that's
really core for us like within Team
Johnson or within the insta clubhub is
whenever we're creating these freebies
these lead magnets we want them to be so
flipping good that really every 60 to 90
days we're revisiting them and being
like how can we improve this how can we
make this lead magnet even better um
because part of that is hey you're going
to get more people signing up for your
email list if that thing is better but
then also the the clear thought is there
if you are giving that much value away
for free then your customer is going to
be like oh I can't imagine how much
value I'd get if I paid 15 or 50 or 500
bucks like it's just that first it's
that first impression really um and you
want to make sure that it's as good as
possible and so I want to um first of
all thank you and affirm that I love the
additional ideas besides just digital
downloads um we've we've done a few
things with quizzes and it's it's really
powerful because people just they're
curious to learn about themselves like
everyone's favorite topic is themselves
and curiosity marketing is is a great
way to hook people in and so if you can
get people curious about themselves and
get them filling out a quiz um it can be
a really powerful tool for for lead gen
and and just getting people onto your
email list now something that you said
in one of your earlier answers was like
this doesn't have to be rocket science
and yeah um it can oftentimes feel that
way it's like this big daunting new
thing for people and so I'm curious
specifically talking about flowes what
are some ways that flowes kind of makes
it simpler and makes it not so rocket
sciencey for these entrepreneurs who are
like listen Natalie and Brock this
sounds great but I'm barely staying
afloat with learning the Instagram
algorithm so how do I figure out this
whole like email thing yes okay so first
and foremost this entire platform has
been built by people that know your
business deeply right we come from the
small business space and I remember when
our co-founder Rebecca came to my tiny
little apartment I was living in San
Francisco at the time we ordered pizza
we had a bottle of wine and she pitched
me on her vision for the company for
flesk this was like maybe six years ago
and one sentence she said to me stood
out above everything else she said Nat
email helps them to make more money and
we need to make it so that email sending
an email is as easy as posting to
Instagram if we can create a platform
where sending an email is as easy as
posting to Instagram we can help these
business owners make so much more money
build such more successful businesses
and I was hooked I'm like that's it
because email for so long has felt so
daunting so overwhelming like one more
task that you have to do people don't
pursue it they put it off and as a
result you know we have these amazing
businesses that aren't actually
generating nearly the amount of Revenue
that they could be if they just had an
email list and so when we talk about
flowes I really want you to think about
um and how we approach even just
building the platform building the
product stepping into a space that is
intuitive and simple and feels like
taking a big breath of fresh air where
you can actually create and design
anything you want and then our platform
behind the scenes in the back end is
doing all of that Powerhouse work to
convert what your whatever your vision
is into a high- performing High
converting fantastic deliverability
email we have patented technology on the
design platform that Rebecca and Martha
and trong our entire co-founding team
built and that patent enables our
members to like I said get in the
platform have fun design create change
fonts colors upload their custom brand
fonts like things that you can't do
outside of our platform are possible in
flowes and then our technology is doing
all of this very complex work behind the
scenes to convert that design into
something that's going to perform very
very well in the Inbox and so when you
think about you know what do we do to
make it really easy I would say it's
very intuitive it should you should be
able to find where things are if you go
I wish I could you probably can in flow
desk and it's going to be easy to find
find where to do it um good design good
design it is more important today than
ever before I won't go on my rant on
this one but we're living in an era
where more people are starting small
businesses or people are becoming
creators 2023 was a record setting year
in the United States for new small
business applications and that came
after two prior record setting years for
new business applications why is that
relevant because more people that start
small business small businesses means
more saturated markets which means you
have to stand out the era of you know
just send an email that's plain text and
it really doesn't matter what's in it as
long as there's a giant CTA like it's
over it's been over in the same way that
you know on social media you've got to
show up you've got to truly be yourself
and share what makes you different and
have a brand personality or um a
personal brand or a brand voice and and
design I mean all those elements matter
more today and it translates to email so
it always breaks my heart when someone
has like great strategy great copy and
ugly emails I'm like you're killing me
so we make design really easy you don't
need to know how to do design you don't
need to know how to code you just get in
there and play it's very similar to
canva in terms of functionality so if
you're familiar with that platform um
hop into flow desk it'll feel right
right and the last thing I'll say um
that I really love about what we do is
our price and I I know this is a weird
one to talk about but it's something
that's near dear to my heart uh being a
mama bear for small business unlike
everybody else we do not penalize you
for growing your list which means
whether you have a 100 subscribers or a
thousand subscribers or your list grows
to a 100,000 subscribers or a million
subscribers it's $35 a month that's it
we don't increase per subscriber and
that is not the standard in the industry
um you know it used to be when you had a
web s that you would actually get
charged more for the amount of traffic
that you had so if your site had 50
views you wouldn't have to pay as much
as if your site had 100,000 views and
that isn't that archaic like can you
imagine um just it's so archaic to me
and so we don't stand for that we're
really fighting for um a pricing
structure that makes this simpler easier
more accessible we want you to grow your
list we want you to be successful and
that's just kind of built into
everything from the product to how we
price ourselves yeah I I love that and I
can attest to using flesk myself I am
not not a techie person I am apparently
not a person who can speak either but
I'm not a techie person like I suck with
social media like I'm good with social
media but I'm not good with like the
tech side I guess I should say and it
sounds weird because I'm good with
social media but I I don't like Tech I
don't like figuring out coding and like
the behind the scenes work I admire
people who can build these softwares and
code and but like my worst grade that I
got in all of college was a D+ and it
was in intro to computers which was
basically just like intro to coding um
so I suck at that side of thing so I can
attest that personally speaking um flesk
was extremely easy to use and and very
intuitive and I love that you compared
it to canva because a lot of our
listeners are familiar with canva and
have basically figured out canva on
their own and so I I I think that
there's definitely a lot of similarities
there in terms of the intuitiveness and
just the ease of use um but I know you
were talking about like standing out in
people's inboxes and like the plain text
you know simple emails with a big CTA
those aren't necessarily working anymore
because it's not 2007 and a lot of
businesses and a lot of small businesses
in particular are now sending emails and
are showing up in the inbox so how do
you stand out because like as I'm
scrolling through my inbox there are
emails that my eyes go right to there
are emails that I'm going to open every
single time there are emails that I'm
going to start I'm going to make sure
that they don't get deleted so I can
read them later um so like how do you
achieve those things how do you actually
stand out in a crowded inbox
yes I'm the same way by the way I am
email obsessed like there are people who
if I see it rolling in my inbox I don't
care what I'm doing I will bookmark it
and make sure that I go back to it so
what creates that level of loyalty um in
the inbox look it it's very very simple
you've got to serve before you sell
we've talked about that and I know it
keeps coming up but we if I don't say it
I will regret it you have to focus on
giving value in the Inbox and creating
that loyalty I often say like you know
especially as an SMB a small business
owner Creator unlike a lot of things
that can be purchase like visibility on
a feed loyalty has to be earned like
true loyalty has to be earned so start
there create content create emails that
you would actually want to open like
that's where you start think about those
emails that you love if if you're not
subscribed to newsletters yet think
about the content in general that you
love what is it about that content that
keeps you coming back and keeps you Enga
engaging I've talked about good design
you know I think look in a world of
homogeneous Now quickly becoming AI
generated where everything sounds the
same looks the same chat gpts writing
everyone's copy I mean you have to kind
of break that mold in order to create
those really impactful emails that
deserve those High open rates you know
week over week month over month and so
start with creativity think about
whether it's storytelling um what your
strengths are if it's humor if it's
education and information and data lean
into it um you know there are so many
different formats there's no shortage of
ways that people send emails from you
know aggregated and Cur ated knowledge
and insights I think of um the skim is
one of my favorites if for folks that
love something similar like morning Brew
there are different platforms that you
know aggregate info it's highly
educational very quick Snippets but it's
valuable content because I don't have to
scroll through 20 news articles to get
just exactly what I need to know um to
go about my day versus I think about um
Jen Olstead from tonic site shop she
runs a really incredible uh design store
and they create all sorts of design
templates for small business owners her
emails are hilarious she writes about
growing up on an ostrich Farm in Texas
and her stories are so funny and so
Dynamic that I bookmark her emails
whenever they come into the Inbox and I
could go on and on but it goes back to
create emails that you yourself would
open and you're ultimately going to find
um that you stand out and then the last
thing I'll just say one more thing on
design and I know this is s of my my hot
take because there are plenty people
that do very well with plain text emails
I just happen to believe I really do um
the the gorgeous design improves
performance I take people more seriously
we do I mean I took again for anyone
that that knows how nerdy I am I studied
you know Psychology and Neuroscience at
upen undergrad as part of my education I
love psych I I love knowing how the
brain works we take people more
seriously when things look more
professional right when when something
inbounds and it looks more professional
or someone carries them in a certain way
because I want to clarify you can still
show up iPhone to face ugc style and I
that is not unprofessional that is
professional when you carry yourself
with confidence and you carry yourself
you know with valuable insights and
information or humor or sense of of
genuine um you know relationality but
what I mean is when you show up and you
look professional and you look the part
and the way that you tell a story
captures attention and you have this uh
this way of ultimately you know like
dressing for the business you want to be
or like creating content for the type of
business you aspire to be or the Creator
you aspire to be people take notice and
I I think it applies to the inbox so
create those emails people ultimately
like you would open yourself they want
to read they want to see they want to
absorb and and be the business that you
want to be like show up in the inbox the
way that you've always aspired to to
show up as a Creator or a business owner
um leaning into those strengths and
ultimately providing value for the
audience it will make you stand out it
really will one of my favorite things
that I've been doing recently that I
would recommend for anyone listening is
to kind of piggyback off what you were
just saying is literally like just
looking at my own email inbox I did this
two weeks ago I was writing an email for
my email list and I was like hm what
should my subject line and this is at
least my flow of things is I write the
email first and then I come up with the
subject line at the end and I don't know
if that works for other people I don't
know if you have any idea about like
what other people typically do that's
what works for me so I write the email
first and then I'm like okay I'm trying
to come up with a subject line that can
kind of summarize this email and also
create a little curiosity and make
people want to click on the email but I
was struggling to come up with like how
to word it how to phrase it all that
stuff so I just literally like you were
saying went to my inbox and just
scrolled through and I didn't even look
at like what are the top you know
biggest companies doing or like what
what is REI and Target and like all
these big names in my inbox what are
they doing I was just like what emails
do I remember opening what emails when I
got the notification new email um You've
Got Mail like when I got that
notification what which ones was I
paying attention to the most um and then
I use those as kind of like a framework
or a template for coming up with my own
subject line and so I absolutely love
that idea and I'm curious I don't know
if you know is that something that you
would recommend to kind of like write
the email first subject line Second is
that what a lot of people do or am I or
am I kind of different there no that is
exactly the uh exactly the
recommendation I would make is finalize
your content then come up with a way to
hook them in um you know that's just the
way that my my brain processes and works
I will say my top two performing subject
lines in my entire career that I have
ever released all right the first was
just
hey just hey Hui that was it I don't
even think I had an exclamation point I
think it was just hey um highest open
rate I've ever had and then the second
highest was face planting in an
airport and everyone opened it and it
what it was a story about me tripping
falling face planning in an airport with
a business metaphor and a link to a
recent blog post truly so I say that to
say like I think sometimes you can go
simple and other times you know you lead
in with that hook in the same way you'd
hook them with a with a like think about
if you're opening a real you've got what
3 seconds if you're lucky to convince
someone to not scroll right past and the
subject line is the email marketing
equivalent so I love Brock that you
scrolled through I think that's a great
way if you're not sure where to get
started with a subject line also just
like scroll through the promotions tab
in your in your inbox notice what
catches your attention and notice what
you scroll right past start to see if
you can pick out Trends because
oftentimes um those are the best lessons
like as a marketer it's less about what
a textbook says that you should do and
it's ultimately more about actual
behavior of actual people in those
circumstances and situations so I love
that advice I think that's uh top tier
advice and if someone's getting started
unsure what to write for a subject line
pop into your inbox what grabs your eye
what grabs your attention and then see
if you can kind of make that formatting
fit for um your email awesome I love
that and I love the the example of the
hey being your your top email subject
line of all time it makes sense because
if I was to get that I would think it a
personal email like I would I might even
think it was like a text message and so
I would open it right away so that makes
sense um what are some common mistakes
to avoid when we're writing our emails
or we're designing them or the subject
lines um any common mistakes and I want
to ask one in particular that I don't
obviously we can't give legal advice
here but I I heard this on I think
threads the other day that if you put re
colon at the beginning of your subject
line as if the email was a reply someone
said that's illegal is that true like
I've never heard that before it's never
something that I've done or recommended
but I'm now like concerned is that
something that should be on the lookout
for and are there any other things that
I should um avoid in emails yeah I I
don't know if it's
illegal I think as with anything um
trust is Paramount with an audience or
with a subscriber so I would just always
advise against doing anything that might
mislead someone in any way because
there's nothing worse like there's
nothing worse than uh getting an email
and then you know opening it going wait
wait what oh did I miss a meeting did I
miss were we supposed to be on a call
because I've gotten those emails where
it's like we missed you today and I'm
like oh no like what did I miss and um
then just to find out it was you know
sales pitch to something so I don't know
about the legality but what I will say
just from like an advisory standpoint uh
you know just be genuine and don't
damage that trust over an open rate it's
never worth it um but in regards to
mistakes so you know some of the the
biggest one right now that is top of
mine for me because we're we're entering
an era where deliverability is more
important the same way that on Instagram
the conversation's always the algorithm
and lately what's going on there um on
email it's like deliverability how do we
make sure that our emails are getting
into the inbox where we want them to be
and you know one of the biggest mistakes
I see folks make is this is going to
sound very simple but sending a massive
email blast to a cold list or um I
really hope this doesn't happen but we
hear it all the time sending a massive
email blast to a list that did not opt
in
um a list that did not actively ask to
be a part of your uh marketing materials
you know a list you downloaded from
somewhere or a list that you aggregated
over years and years and years but they
didn't actually opt into marketing
emails maybe they opted in to work with
you or opted in through a different a
different route and just assuming they
want th those materials why is that a
huge mistake well deliverability is
critical and so you never want to damage
your your sender reputation that's
associated with your email address um
and and you just want to make make sure
that they're opted in they know they're
going to be receiving emails from you if
you have a cold audience you know you
can still engage with them I recommend
warming up that list we've got resources
on how to do that it's not hard I
promise you know but but warm up a list
don't just send a massive blast to folks
you haven't engaged with in a long
period of time and by the way long
period of time might surprise you um I
would say if you haven't engaged with
them in an email marketing capacity in
three months I would consider them cold
that's that's just my personal take um
you know so so really kind of uh or
quarter you can think about it quarterly
so think about it from that perspective
don't just massive blast to a large list
it can really impact um your
deliverability especially people are
hitting spam um it's just it's not a
place you want to be in another mistake
I see people make this is gonna sounds
simple but gosh I even see professional
email marketers make this mistake not
sending preview emails to yourself prior
to emailing your list send yourself a
preview email review that email in your
actual inbox look at it on mobile and
look at it on web make sure that looks
right make sure that you didn't make any
kind of Errors grammatical spelling
errors make sure the links work click
everything like it's very simple but
you'd be surprised how many times
someone will send out an email and just
they didn't send a preview they didn't
click the links and the links aren't
working it's human it happens but it can
be easily avoided and then the last one
I'll say here and we can go into more if
you have specific things you want to
chat about but sometimes emails are too
long so this is a big mistake I see
people making if an email is too long
inboxes like Gmail will clip it and what
ultimately happens is once an email is
clipped it can impact you know a
multitude of functions but it just makes
it a less effective email so it'll kind
of cut off the whole bottom half of your
marketing email so you want to in that
preview send also just make sure that
Gmail's not clipping it if you use Gmail
um you know and or any other provider
just double check make sure it's not too
long it's not getting clipped not
getting kind of um you know uh minimized
and and all of your information can get
to your audience gotcha that's very
helpful um you mentioned not
communicating or not emailing not
sending to your list within this quarter
within the last 90 days so keeping with
that idea of frequency how frequent
would you recommend for someone who's
just getting started and then is there
like an upper end of the spectrum where
you would say absolutely I would not
recommend sending 17 emails a day or
like whatever that upper end of the
threshold is yeah so I can go on the
record and say I do not recommend
sending 17 emails a day uh that would
not be ideal
um but in terms of frequency okay so if
you're just getting started my
recommendation is to choose a frequency
that you can um comfortably commit to so
for some creators it's going to be once
a month and they're going to do a
monthly newsletter and that's a great
place to start monthly is fantastic if
you're willing to do a little bit more I
have seen a lot of success for creators
that have a weekly Cadence where they're
sending an email every Tuesday or every
Wednesday or even every other week um
weekly frequency it just tends to keep
you top of mind and I I've also seen too
it doesn't have to be brand new content
you're not sharing anywhere else you can
basically take content you'll be sharing
that week or recently have shared in
other places and just reformat it for
email right if you're not even sure
where to start or what to send and that
feels too intimidating you're not
Reinventing the wheel use what you've
already created it's phenomenal content
just figure out a way to package it in
email format and you can even use it to
boost that content post publication
we've seen people whether they have a
podcast a YouTube channel they're
thriving on Instagram their email list
drives a ton of organic traffic back to
those posts those videos those channels
and can actually create this second wave
um within the algorithm of of attention
and traffic so just a little like tidbit
and tip there um but one thing I'll
share so I'm a big data fan I know you
love data as well we did a small
business marketing Trends report at the
conclusion of last year that we
published uh early January and we
analyzed 6.8 billion emails that were
sent across our platform and in that we
wanted to see how frequently people who
are sending those emails are actually
sending them and here's what we found
63% are sending less than once a month
so there's so much room for opportunity
there like in my role I'm constantly
thinking how do I help people be more
successful they've got to send more than
once a month but over half of people um
who run a small business are doing an
email less than once a month so a lot of
room for opportunity um but 18% s
multiple emails a month 12.5% are
sending it weekly um and then we've got
about 6% that are doing monthly so if
you can't commit to the weekly I would
say don't end up in the every other
random month sporadic commit to at least
monthly um but know that it's definitely
something you're not alone in uh you
know feeling uncertain about and uh
start with something you can commit to
and do your best to stick to it as you
would with any content marketing
strategy absolutely I mean that's
exactly what I say on Instagram is
rather than picking like a random number
that you have to stick to figure out
what you can comfortably sustain um and
then create systems to scale that up or
to make that sustainability uh more
sustainable um and so I appreciate that
answer very much um speaking of the data
which I love all of those percentages
you just shared I was definitely in the
63 you said 63% I was in that in 2023
and um at least with my personal email
list within our business email list we
send emails weekly but like my personal
much smaller more intimate email list
was every couple months when I had
something I wanted to send them uh so
was a very cold audience but this year
I'm pretty proud I've been consistent
with pretty much once a week there have
been a few weeks here or there where uh
you know I've fallen off the horse a
little bit but pretty consistent with
once a week for this whole year so I'm
proud of that but speaking of of data
and metrics um what are some things that
people should be looking at because on
Instagram we have like 50 metrics to
track with views and comments shares
reach you know there's a million things
what are some metrics that people should
pay attention to within email marketing
and then do you have like
Baseline quote unline quote numbers that
people can strive for yes okay I love
this question and I'm going to make it
really simple and really straightforward
there are two metrics that you should
pay attention to with email there's more
than that that you could but two that
are fundamental and critical so the
first is open rate this is the
percentage of people that are actually
opening the email what determines this
um most likely is either your subject
line like we've talked about what's the
hook how are you getting them you know
convinced to actually open Andor your
general loyalty and reputation with that
audience like I said there are some
emails where the subject line doesn't
matter the minute I see that name in my
inbox I know I'm going to open it and
that's earned so um subject line helps
to hook especially for new fols and then
that reputation that you develop with
your audience it's earned and that also
influences open rate um in regards to
benchmarks yes so going back to that
report that we did 6.8 billion emails
here's what we found amongst segmented
audiences meaning a audiences that
aren't just massive blasts but actually
segmented and tailored um we found an
average open rate of 48.2 6% so 48% open
rate which by the way that's a very
healthy open rate um and and I'm really
proud of that number just as a platform
so what we found in our platform across
those emails so segmented now
unsegmented so these would be larger
lists cold audiences um you know we're
looking at a much lower open rate of
14.98% so we can say 15% on average one
thing this illustrates though as well is
when you have a segmented audience you
have an audience that um the content is
really tailored to their interests their
needs you're serving them regularly
they're a part of your core audience
they're much more loyal they're going to
open that email far more often 48% of
the time versus 15% of the time if it's
just a random massive unsegmented
portion of your list the second metric
that you pay attention to other than
open rate is your click-through rate and
this is the number of people that are
ultimately clicking the CTA in the email
to go anywhere that you're sending them
it could be an offer a sale a blog post
a resource you name it what is the rate
of people that are actually clicking
through and we found by the way this
rate is much lower you have to think
about it as if you send to 100% of your
list and it's segmented you're getting
48% that open it but what percent
actually click it's going to be a subset
of that 48% so the segmented average is
about 2% is a really healthy average
amount 2% click-through rate CTR um
unsegmented to be found at
0.8% much lower but that again makes a
lot more sense so I would say really
healthy audience you're going to have
about 40 to 50% open rate segmented and
then for clickthrough we looking at
right around 2% um if by the way if it's
higher than that Bravo on either metric
it's an indication that you're doing
something very very right and the last
thing I'll say is don't overlook um
outside of metrics don't overlook the
qualitative feedback one of the most um
impactful things that you can do when
sending an email is ask people to reply
you know if you tell a vulnerable story
if you're telling something funny it
doesn't matter ask them to reply ask
them to engage with you sometimes you
can find that your most successful
emails may have pretty standard open
rates pretty standard click-through
rates but they kind of result in this
abundance of meaningful replies um we've
seen that we've heard that from our
community you know especially when
people are really investing their heart
into their list they'll get replies with
stories they'll get replies with
testimonials they get replies that are
just heartfelt and genuine and it's like
fuel right it's feedback fuel to keep
going as a small business owner in the
same way that that DM that imbalance
when you least expect it from somebody
that's like hey you really changed my
life I have to tell you you know the the
images you captured of our wedding day
they really changed my life that real
that you posted made me feel less alone
because I've really been struggling on
social and Brock you made me feel like
it's not just me out here like grinding
and trying to make something you know
matter in this world like that kind of
feedback although it's not a metric it
matters yeah I uh I love that and that's
something that I try to do and I didn't
know it was a best practice um I've
learned that it's best practice but it's
something that I do every once in a
while actually kind of frequently it's
just like asking my audience to reply
and asking them to engage back and I
kind of think of it the same way as like
commenting on a social media post it's
getting their input and kind of starting
a dialogue instead of just this
monologue um and so I I love that tip I
know earlier you were talking about how
easy and intuitive it is to use flowes
and I and I really feel like it's easy
and intuitive to create these beautiful
emails that stand out that don't take a
ton of like coding and you know graphic
design background and all this stuff um
I'm curious though can you give us a
little like Hush Hush sneak preview of
maybe anything that's coming to flowes
any upcoming features or improvements or
just like things that we can hear about
right now before they're officially
unveiled to the world yes I love doing
this this is like we're in our
Innovation era right now at flowes
that's what I would call it um we're
applying gorgeous design to things that
either you can't have on other platforms
like they just don't have them or you
have to like buy it on a third party
software and then make it integrate into
an email and I'll give some examples of
what's upcoming so um one we are
launching a poll layout block which
means you can start putting polls
directly in your email they're gorgeous
they match the brand and the design of
the whole email and you can even export
that data in a CSV but that's coming
very very soon we wanted to launch that
prior to the fall for our marketers that
want to leverage polls to figure out
what sales they're going to offer what
products to roll out for Black Friday
Cyber Monday you name it pull layout
block built right into the email and
they're beautiful we're also playing a
lot with forms look forms are the
gateway to Growing your list right
that's what someone lands on and
ultimately decides whether or not
they're going to give you your email
info standard forms have been around
forever we have them even our standard
forms are beautiful but we're playing
around with like what more could we do
so we recently launched video forms
which allows you to have a video at the
very very top of your form like a
landing page with an embeddable video
but you can do it with like three clicks
and it's done it looks beautiful next up
this is like top secret but I'm really
excited to share with you we have
spinner forms so you can actually um
someone will enter their email click the
spin button it will ignite a spinner
that will start spinning with different
options on the wheel and you can give
away you know anything you can give away
a discount you could give away a product
you could give away and they get a
coupon code that they can then redeem
through you um which is super fun
countdown timers we love fomo we've been
asked forever to incorporate countdown
timers into flesk recently last year
launched them in our email so you can
actually throw a countdown timer into an
email to drive that fomo and that
urgency built right into the platform
and now it's coming to forms so you can
actually have forms with that embeddable
countdown timer to really ignite that
fomo get people subscribing um what else
oh my gosh I mean we're working on a lot
like we truly are Integrations I can't
reveal the names of the brands but what
I can say is um we have some big
Integrations coming up as well with
Incredible companies all of y'all are
probably working with using and loving
uh just to help you grow your list
through them as well and the best part
about all of this is that we build for
our community so floes I as most of
youall know um we're completely
bootstrapped uh this is a company that
um we build for our members not for a
board or for investors like we're
building for the small business owners
so if there's a feature you ever want or
you see someone else have or you're like
they have it but my gosh flus could do
it so much better which is one of my
favorite requests we actually have a
public road map you can go online see
our public road map with everything that
we either are working on or you know
exploring working on and our members
actually upvote the features that we're
building so we really look to our
community for their ideas and what they
want and then it's our team to
ultimately go and create the most
Innovative and beautiful version of that
feature that will help them to make more
revenue and build a more sustainable
business that is so flipping cool and I
feel like I want to create a road map
for like the insta clubhub and this
podcast and like every business that I
have so that people can directly vote
and up vote and just see where we're
headed because I think that's so flipp
and smart and so thank you for sharing
all that I appreciate um all of the
disclosures that were just made um and I
really just appreciate you for being on
today this has been such a great
conversation and I think people got I
hope they got so much value out of it I
would love to just you know one final
question ask you what advice would you
give to someone who's just getting
started I pulled my audience recently
and I think it was more than 60% of my
followers aren't currently using or they
don't even have an email list so what
would you recommend to that person just
as kind of as we wrap up today yes my
biggest recommendation is to start start
now start with nothing just start stop
putting it off for another day when you
feel more prepared or the timing feels
perfect as with anything in business
there's never going to be a perfect time
but just start one of the cool things
that you can do with flowes is forms are
free so even if you're not ready to send
that email even if you're not ready to
figure out what content goes into it or
how you're going to create that Cadence
that we talked about you can still
create your forms embed your forms and
at least start growing the list start
gaining that contact information for
your followers that love to hear from
you and then when the time comes you'll
be ready right you pay once you start
sending those emails you can use your
forms in perpetuity to collect emails
our hope is that when you're ready to
send the email you'll choose us that you
love our platform but also when we talk
about owned audiences the Beauty and the
real kind of heart behind everything is
even if you choose somebody else you can
take that list with with you and so I
would encourage you to start now and
then the last thing I'll say is your
voice matters your audience wants to
hear from you I think it's sometimes a a
limiting belief or a lie that we tell
ourselves that you know and it applies
to everything in small business
everything in being a creator that you
know oh somebody's already doing it but
somebody's already done it you know and
and where's my space but nobody's done
it like you and I think that's so
important when it comes to email
remember that there are people out there
who your words could impact for the
better that need to learn from you be
entertained by you um uncover something
new about themselves through your eyes
you have so much value to offer the
world genuinely needs what you've got so
get started don't put it off and
ultimately lean in and and be yourself
you will be shocked at what an impact it
makes for your business and just how how
it allows you to connect with people in
an entirely New Way amazing thank you so
much Natalie I appreciate you for being
here we will link up uh flowes and
everything down in the show notes below
but I appreciate your time and your
expertise today thanks for having me
thank you so much much for listening
today and from a business perspective I
just got to say the fact that flowes
allows you to build your email list for
free and you don't actually have to
start paying until you actually want to
start sending emails is so smart because
it makes your barrier to entry so much
easier it makes it so much uh lower of a
risk so to speak or requires such a
lower investment to start building your
email list because you can do it on Flow
desk so quickly so simply and so
inexpensively if that's a word so again
if you want to get signed up for flowes
you can find the link down in the show
notes below but as a bare minimum if you
take away nothing else from today's
episode it is please just get started
with growing your email list your future
self your future business will thank you
for it and I want to thank you for
listening so thank you so much for being
here today I will see you next week and
as always happy networking
[Music]
w